hello the style history of video series
from the market a gentleman blog that
seeks to explain the odd and sometimes
chaining origins of the most gentlemanly
fashions last video in the series we
covered the shirt color and today we
tackle the necktie now in order to get a
more accurate account of the history of
the neck time I've invited my chief
correspondent here with Marco gentlemen
Wensley now once he has recently gotten
his doctorate at from Cornell University
on men's fashion history and today we'd
like to talk with him just a little bit
about the very interesting story behind
the men's necktie so if you'll kindly
begin we'll go ahead and start the video
I'm trailer I hold on just a moment
let's let's pause the video
you
I apologize for the interruption folks
it seems I made a horrible mistake you
see dr. lindsay has never been a huge
fan of talking the public but what he
has done for us is and if i'm a
professor make sure that i'm doing this
right you have given me this notebook
here yes with all of your notes on it
from your studies and you would like me
to read those and we will tell the story
together alright I think we'll do that
so let's begin so based on the notes i
have here and multiple historical
documentation the necktie can originally
be traced back to Croatian mercenaries
back in the 1630s these mercenaries were
initially known for their very fierce
and destructive behavior under the
command of Louis the thirteenth of
France what they become them for instead
is a long scarf that they used to wear
all the way around their necks in
different colors ranging from course
rough like material from soldiers and
smooth silk like materials for the
officers these wrap scarves worn by
these crochet mercenaries soon became
known as kravat's a corrupt French
pronunciation of Croats or Croatians
others wrap scarf served no particular
purpose much like the neckties imported
a the corrosion mercenary style caught
on very very quickly with the people in
the court of Louis 13 in versailles
france again much like today a style
that catches on in France and Versailles
becomes a huge fashion phenomenon all
the way throughout Europe pretty soon
everyone in Europe was wearing these
Croatian mercenary inspired wraparound
scarves grass by the early 1800s the
same time that European men were still
suffering from the oppression of
razor-sharp collars Europeans started to
have a curve at tying contest whereas
today a simple Windsor half windsor may
suffice for the comment i we're back in
this time cravat tie and became an art
form
sometimes requiring several servants to
get you dressed in the wine in fact
interestingly during this time cravat
teen was such a time-consuming process
that if a person was to untie a
gentleman's cravat it was considered a
Dueling offense all right then we deal
at three paces however perhaps the most
dandy of all gentlemen during this time
was a man named old Raul who reportedly
took five hours to dress himself and was
known to have the most ornately time
providing the entire European continent
having not yet been given the gift of
television or the ability to make
structural videos with your dog people
actually would line up outside of the
most house and pay to watch you can get
dressed in the morning which is why I've
decided to model Brummell and extend to
you viewers and blog readers the
opportunity to come watch myself get
dressed in the morning if you're
interested please make an appointment by
calling the below number but back to the
story at hand after decades and in fact
centuries of men abusing their heads
through sharp collars and curve ass
while I'm Way too tied to allow blood
flow correctly to the brain a man named
King Charles the second brings back the
style to England my name is my name is
my name is Charles the second no
throughout history as the man who
brought back partying Charles the second
was extremely influential when it came
to the latest and greatest fashions in
Europe and it caught on very very
quickly in the hub of the European world
there in London since then the cream on
has evolved into several different
entities such as the bow tie and the
common necktie later in the 1920s
hand-painted tiles will become extremely
popular and could get up to 4 inches
across luckily today you don't need five
hours to ensure your cravat is precisely
tied the way you want it before you go
off to work simple visit to the mark of
a gentleman blog will show you
how to tie the most two common nuts a
Windsor and a half windsor now keep your
looking very very sharp in the modern
world and thus isn't history of the next
time thankfully to dr. Wednesday we have
successfully debunked the theory that I
was invented by a woman in order to keep
control of her husband and that does it
for today's style history from the
market legitimate wad thank you so much
for watching I hope you enjoyed it my
thanks to profess from Wednesday for
coming along and I ask you please just
visit the market general blog any time
you like four stops to find some video
format otherwise that's life that's what
all the people say you're riding high
shut down and may